Project 1 Proposal
Bird strikes - Aircraft logs questions:

Goal: Identify the highest risk factors to prevent injuries and/or fatalities caused by bird strikes to airplanes
Data Set Link: https://www.kaggle.com/faa/wildlife-strikes
Data Details: Aircraft Wildlife Strikes,1990-2015. Has 174K rows in total.

Answer the following questions to achieve goal: 
work on 1,2,7

1. **Which month has the highest rate of of bird strikes?
    a. What percentage of those bird strikes cause fatalities per month?
    b. What percentage of those bird strikes cause injuries per month?
    Plots: 
        Bar: x: Month, y: Number of Bird Strikes
        Line: x: Month, y1:Number of bird strikes that cause injuries, y2:Number of bird strikes that cause fatalities y3:Number of bird strikes that cause non-fatal
      
    Keep Columns: 
    
2. **Is there a type of bird (species, flock or single bird) that contributes to the highest rate of bird strikes, overall?
    a. Top ten species that cause highest rate of bird strikes, overall?
    Plots:
        Pie: Slices - show top 10 species that caused bird strikes, overall
        Histogram: Bins: Number of birds that collided with plane
            
    Keep Columns:

3. At what point during the flight phase do most bird strikes take place, overall? (Flight Phase)
    Plots:
        Bar: x: flight phase, y: number of bird strikes

4. Which airline operator had the most bird strikes, overall? (Operator)
    a. Look at commercial vs. military, airplane carrier (ex: United, Delta, etc.)
    Plots:
        Pie: Commercial vs. Military (note: may have to rename/regroup operator)
        Pie: Bird strikes by airplane carrier

5. Where do most bird strikes take place? (ex: FAA region, State) - OPTIONAL
    Plots: 
        Bar: 
        (IF TIME PERMITS) Use Google Map API to create heatmap weighted by bird strikes (by airport or state) 


6. Which part of the plane (ex: engine, turbine, etc.) is most affected by bird strikes? 
    (Need a for loop to go through each part of the plane)
    a. Distinguish between whether the strike happened and whether it caused damaged.

7. **Is there a correlation between weather conditions, such as Visibility (dawn, day, dusk, night) and Precipitation (fog, rain, snow...), and bird strikes?
    Plots:
        Bar: x: Visibility, y: bird strikes
        Bar: x:Precipitation, y: bird strikes
    
    a. Is there a correlation between weather conditions, such as Visibility and Precipitation, and injuries and fatalities? (optional: if there is enough data)
    Hypothesis 1: More injuries+fatalities happen in fair weather (Precipitation = None)
    Hypothesis 2: More injuries+fatalities happen during the day (Visibility = dawn+day)
        

Project Phases:
1. Brainstorm all the cleaned dataframes that need to be created, each group member will be in charge of a different different
    a. Export each cleaned dataset into a csv, and store in "Resources" folder
2. Create branches, 1 per question/topic
3. Copy this main py file into the branches, each group member will work on a different branch - 
    Title the py file in each branch with group member's name
4. Team meeting to approve and merge into main